GAME NAMES
* vocabu-blast
* blast-tionary
* big dict energy
* how big's your dictionary

* catalyst cata LIST


yabbering wasn't in the dictionary

high score screen

fix typerwritter mode

IDEA: use a gun to shot the letters in order


exume didn't surface exhume


Create a new error class, all the right tiles exist on the board (i.e. not a tile overlap/mismatch issue) but instead I need to move the pieces on the board into proper arrangement. See new icon_error_rearrange* pngs. This error of course would only surface in game modes where arrangement/adjacency is part of the rules (e.g. I won't expect to see this error in constellation mode)


kludge was not in the dictionary.
Maybe that's ok; maybe it's just an obscure word.

Maybe we add an "appeal" button for a word not in the dictionary, like a second check to unlock an even more thorought word check. Maybe this is when there is a pop quiz definition and/or you must spell the word exactly correct.

Let's also add the the session logs more information about the spell check hints that get presented to the user, for these type of debugging sessions in the future.


barnicle did not surface Barnacle
why?

perservierence did not surface perseverance
(missing E between R and V blocked it)

CAPITAIN did not surface captain
(extra I between P and T blocked it)

Add the title of the current running game mode, to be displayed at the top of the board. Single line, running along the full length of the board. Not too big of text.

Update spell_check.yaml rule 
csk_class, to also include "CH" and "SH" in the set of allowed swapps.

TRACEA should have suggested TRACHEA

Words pop in in bursts (every X seconds).
There is no grand timer, but a resetting time every X seconds
If there is alleast 1 cleared cell, then the game continues (and fresh cells are loaded in)
If there no cleared cell when the timer ends, the game ends.s

INVATATION didn't recommend INVITATION

DEMIGOG should suggest demagogue


Maybe a list of missing letters at the top?


diaphram should have spell hinted diaphragm
diphragm should have spell hinted diaphragm
diafram should have spell hinted diaphragm

gifs instead of icons (for duplicate words for example)

PERSERVERE


INPERFECT should suggest IMPERFECT (N -> M swaps)

ostridge (I would have liked it to suggest ostrich


Game mode where cells popping in from replenish, the board starts half full. and the game ends if it fills up?
And mission cells pop in sometimes?



INABLE did you mean IN , ABLE ? (should have recommended ENABLE

MISHMASH recommends SMASHING (i don't like that)

WISPER should suggest WHISPER (silent H)

Add sand timers to the super speed mode
If you clear the sand timer then it doesn't fosillize
(or maybe another cell cetagory type called blocked) (since you cannot build words off of it)
A solidified


Different auto end behavior when there are fewer tiles left
(do a full word scan analysis)
(sort into bin of "common words" and "obscure words")
If only obscure left, have some sort of indicator to the user? ("give up yet"?)


When a word isn't on the board, players are asking the question, what piece wasn't there? I could add some highlighting, for which letters were missing? Or list what was missing?

Fade in for pieces during a replenish

Different loading animations for each game mode

If I clear a word while the debug pane is up, refersh the word list "board words"


Maybe an undo button?

FORGOTEN should have recommended FORGOTTEN

INTETION (did you mean TEEN)...

MACROPHAGE (did you mean phone)

CANTRIP not in the dictionary (ok?)

Include propernoun

AUTUM => (should have suggested) AUTUMN
(silent letter)

Maybe purge claude memories

/Users/jeff/.claude/projects/-Users-jeff-Documents-code-wordtetris/memory/

Different palyer dictionaries for different modes?

VELOCIRAPTOR not in the dictionr??

INTRANET did you mean UNTRAINED (a little far...)
CRAN did you mean CRAYON (maybe ok...)

TITRATE wasn't in the dictionary... not even the obscure one
pop quiz for obscure or super obscure words


Little symbols for the different error types, instead of the words?
(to hard to read the errors quickly, they all look the same with fast eyes)



Currently, when I want to try out different game modes, I manually edit the config.yaml file between plays. But instead of me finding the 1 best game mode, I'm discovering that I like a few different game mode / rule combos. I want players to be able to select from multiple different game modes.

Surface menu items in the game, to play the different game modes.

-maybe have different copies of the config files, to have a different configs set aside for each game mode. I would still manually tune these files individually
-Give me the ability to assign a displayed label/name for each game mode (maybe the very first line in the config.yaml file is the label
-So now maybe a folder of config files


Keep track of total player score with the dictionary


When highlighting words, if I've already got the headword before, and this is just a morpheme, inflections, make it a different color (and maybe less points to?)

Game mode, where at least 1 cell needs to be from the connected "pile" (instead of just disparate clusters of asteroids.

avoid spelling corrections like TENTION -> TEN (too big of a drop)

A UI for the admnin config
With little pictures or animations, showing the effect of each option

The lines of a trigrams is getting a little boring

Read game screen, and suggest refactors to split it out, back down to 2000 lines


Maybe there is a goal (background shape) to make

Since positioning can be arbitary, help guide or ideate places on the baord to exicit certain placements.

thinking of trigram rightclicking is daunting.


I rarely see rare consonant unigrams on the board


Implement a point teir


Start building out the more obscure teir

My primary dictionary being used to validate words is in the repo as 
It was original created from file in another project folder ~/Documents/code/wordmountain/v1/12dicts-6.0.2/American/6of12.txt. I thinned the file after many versions into spellingDictionary20k-nocompound.txt (removing phrases, proper nouns, and much more), which I then re-inflated with some words back into this project's expandedAllowedWords.txt.
There was a reapeatable process to re-populate this dictionary, I believe wrapped up in build_expanded_dictionary.py.

Let's go through a similar process, this time sourcing more words from  ~/Documents/code/wordmountain/v1/12dicts-6.0.2/2of12.txt

(Rebuild the more obscure dictionary, for example to include
.//v1/12dicts-6.0.2/American/2of12.txt:30455:revisionist

Maybe the two dictionaries are inflated at their own files, and the word matching refer to both of them (configurable rule in config.yaml)

When it comes to the word hinting, words exclusively from 2of12.txt
* add an obscurity extra score +2 (see for example compounding_class_extra_score)

When the player gets an obscure word (new in the player's player_dictionary) it should be highlighted in the right pane as a different color. (it's own configurable color in colors.yaml), let's pick orange.



An incentive to make people re-use tile paths


trigrams right click



Right clicking


Idea, reverse sand timer. A piece that could give you double points for a limited time.

A mode where, you type in a word, and it highlights all the letters of the board that can form it, like a quick sanity check that all the letters are there, without having to scan the space too much.


QU spawned in 

grain chains or length 2,3,4,5?

Right click uni => doubles, undouble
right click a digram => (all digrams should be at least 1 consonant anyways => doubles one of the consonants

right click a trigram => swaps the last 2 characters in it. (or maybe still some consonant doubling?

Another game mode where the connection lines are actively shown on the board. And as you move cells it will make, break cells lines.


Currently in the game, when a user submits a word (i.e. in the right pane) the game will automatically detect where on the board the word is and clear it. If the word can be spelled in multiple ways, the logic will automatically pick one. This was ok for early prototyping, but now we need a better way. It can be strategically frustrating for the player if the unexpectedly picks the wrong one (especially in game modes with fossilizing cell rules, it can ruin the next word they were planning to made.) (also frustrating with the rules active to prevent spelling the same word multiple times)

Having the game auto picking the word has the UX advantage of speeding things up for the user (especially in game modes with timer).

So let's brainstorm some ways to improve this.


Update spell checker to include a silent E at the end adition



"dile" not in the dictionary?

AI's terminology when developing my word ideation strength algorithm

"launchless grams" (os/uct/erp/rov)
"vowel-led glue morphemes" (er/al/ic) 
"abstract morphemes" (-ify/-ize/-ism/-ial)
"CV/cluster launches" (ba/ca/tr/cr/sho/cra) (the literal "3 vivid words leap" test)
"rhyme families"
"inverted-U" if a morpheme is too common or too rare, it won't ideate. There is a middle ground, for ideation.


If you type in a long word with a subword should we give credit to the subword to (otherwise the player just spelled it in the wrong order)
(or maybe the way we do scoring ????)

Bonus round, compound word off
(as pulled from the player's word dictionary


2 bins of unigrams


Rotating weekly Themes (

Some cells occassionally highlight as bonuses

Right click to "shelve" a couple of words (and roll a new one)

Another game mode
Maybe during the game (only tri and di spwan on the board) then the single letters just start spawning in over time, slowly filling the board, and the game ends when the board fills up?

I couldn't quite spell (on a given turn)
ROMANCE
INHANCE
INVETIGATE
A way for me (debugger) to track all the words I wish I could create that I didn't have the pieces for.

Spell check button?


better mouse only UI

"cloaca" not in the dictioary

The "RX" "LX" type of blend consonatns, need more of the 'rarer' single consonants to be present
	Change the word weighing to include those single letters more when these digrams are present

UI change "XXXXX" word isn't on board
*then auto clear the text field (rather than manual clear?)

A spell check (did you mean? ...)
bagage -> baggage
aligator -> alligator
(double click a cell to add consonants)

Should I allow S plurals or not?
	Then you'd have to feel like you need to find every word in the dictionary multiple times

A click only way to enter SELECT mode

Could do a gram split, where if the first or last cell in a word, the cell split, the letters used in the word are pulled into the last cell, and the other later is left in the 

Do a quick pre game caluclation, that at least 1 word can be created from each multigram.

Drop the font side of the right pane

later is not in the dictionary?
mushroom is not in the dictionary?

dipthlongs feel weird, a brain shift away from consonant oriented ideation

(remove FY) cannot be used with IFY
(remove TIN) secret ING 
(remove RAN) existing word blocking thoughts
(remove IO) only scret TION?
(remove VAT? (ATE scret?)

ESP??

More Ys>

Just pull from a set a raw prefix>

Include some more trigram variety? (if even possible?)


Bug: Sometimes when I click off screen, then back on screen. The clicks don't work quite right, I have to click twice to get an cell selection to work (the first click does nothing)
2026-06-21 00:45:12.602 Python[28913:2039256] Warning: Window move completed without beginning

Sometimes the gram ratios are off (to many digrams)

I need a way to save or capture the end state of a game, for later analysis. Or even for later replay.
Do I capture every user action.

Not enough 'off consonants' in the single letters, to stich things together.

auto selecting the wrong word, if can be spelled multiple times

On the dictionary page, the single letters are rendering too small (maybe some kind of decouple from the in game render?

Can do a quick search within the board for pieces

Re-populate dictionary with head word + conjugations
	* dictionary really only to trace the head word as an entrant (but also still recording unique conbinations
	* get all the +ed words for example

TIN gram should probably go (secret TING gram)

Re-populate dictionary with compound words, etc.


Hitting escape to get back from word entry to board.
Include the timer + bonus points for timing

Accidentally ending the game

Maybe pull rare single letters our of the drawer

Tap to highligh a piece, like a note that I'm planning to use it in a word

Maybe a timed mode where every word you complete you adds to more of your remaining time (and using the larger grams adds signifiantly more time)

Maybe the multigrams form in clusters for an easier organization of the pieces? less randomg?

Maybe just have a drawer of common mophemes to pull from on the right pane
	Maybe the right pane is prefilled with common ones?
	Maybe the gram drawer fills will elements as pulled from words made in the game

Maybe draw a little line in the formation of the word. Like a neat little line tree that builds up over the game

Avoid placing the same multigram during initial board placement

rule: ignore extra dup letter
FO RM MA T => format

rule: allow missing extra letter
SESION => session

Allow for creation of words from fosillized cells
	(then the arrangement of fosilizzed cells matters more, exposing for branching on, adjecnt?

Right click to change a cell (flip, drop letter, etc)


overlapping cell segments can collapse into a common gram? Free up some space?


Maybe just a game time for the full game (until game over is displayed) then as many word enter turns as possible?


Separate from font size, keeping the different number grams visually separate could still be helpful (like maybe different color?)

A game mode where it's more of a spelling quiz
A few static enzym pieces are on the side (suffixes) with a "falling" sideways piece. players have a few seconds to direct where the piece connects to one of the enzyms, to clear the word (or it getting marked as as failure.

	This would be a mostly prearranged set of pieces, for a specific spelling lession.
	example: "ck" sounding endings
	OPA  => QUE
	DU => CK

	T+ION
	S+ION
	C+ION

Clicking a multigram downgrades it to a double gram, single gram; (or maybe just a single gram), less points, but people can use it to complete a word.
I couldn't quite spell out COMPLICATED


Categoryies of visceral rejection of large grams upons first site
* Already a small word ("pal" "prop"). The bind closes to word building
* Almost already spells a small word, still a bit distracting ("pas")
* Smells like a mophologic chunk mis-split ("lly") ("lism")
* vowel confoundments ("ala") ("efu") ("olo")
* Feels like digraph/consonant pairing dependency missing "cin" "hen"
* Pure repulsing impossible combos ("rh")
* Needs a trim. I see what it's going for, but I'd rather have the lesser gram ("ency" -> "ncy")
* Forced morphology ("mper") ("ber") ("ger")
* I understand, but just feels too rare ("mn") ("rh") ("rth")
* Just has a rare letter in it ("az") "q" (only have as qu isolated) "j" "gh" (only have as gh isocation
	* Maybe "w" and "k" too?
	* Maybe "y"? Maybe "v"?
* Too much of a root word ("part" "form" "lect", "duc", "vers", "dict", "over"
** Hm... only one class of word, huh.. ("dec", "uni", "dia", "eco")
* double letter confusing pause ("mme")
* otherwise well formed, just 'doesnt click' ("phe")
* snaps to a plural ending feeling "ls"
* forced vowel dipthong ("hoo")
* when in doubt starting with "c" and "h" or "l" feels weird; drop
* when in doubt ending with "c" feels weird; drop
* got it.. but I'm still mad ("rge", "nth", "dle", "tle", "nch", "dy", "ld", "cc", "cy", "mb")
	* oh god, I don't know science words...
* uncommon bare dipthongs / vowel combos (hard to ideate without any surrounding consnants.

* morphemes that are extremely flexible, attachable, aren't weird/daunting, because it feels like you can attach it after the fact to almost any words; I don't need to brainstorm the origin front of the word in advance of groking its usefulnedd
* Morphemes that are semi flexible "ier" are daunting, lots of possibilities, and I must pre-brainstorm a set of different frontwords that correctly pair with it ("ese" "ier" "tent", "ular", "dent", "anti", "port", "tory", "ture", "ien", "ian", "tive" "dis")
* Morpheme that is more rare, is actually less daunting. The word space to search for the front half is less abundant, and a more natural autocomplete.

* just an "ugly" gram ("ard")

* many variations on the dark L or dark R at the end of a word; it's also hard to ideate backwards from the dark sounds
* similar dark N and dark M ending sounds

KEEPING
aXX grams
*ry grams

(recover "ability")
Keeping "ship" (maybe drop; lives in the daunting middleground)

Longer words (many cells) tend to ball up, get clusted, crunched prett quickly. (they don't spike out, and they take a lot of arranging

New game mode: Enzyme
A fixed block, that cannot be cleared itself, but can be used to clear words on the board. Then the game is arranging all other o
May the blocks that are selected to be enzymes are random better rounds?
(This would still use the "omni-swap" movement scheme)
(This would not have fossilized, they would just get cleared? 

Maybe a no fossilization mode, just clear, and replenish?



Some insentive needs to exist to go for the longer words, otherwise players would just keep making smaller words


Maybe clicking on a cell doubles the letter on it (or a power up)
Maybe clicking on a cell flips the order of a piece

The game start should be a slower intro animation, rather than a flashbang of words.

A secret key so snapshot game state (and all it's variables) to a file, for AI diagnosis. Basically, the ability to "save a game", in the middle, with any rule sets applied, etc.

With only 1 swap, we can only arrange 1 piece, so long words can't be made

Just allow as many swaps as possible before the 60 second timer. No cursor.

Maybe cursor randomly dance around, and you must spell a word with it, taking as many swaps as you need, then it immediately advances when you type in one word that uses it. Also, a 60 second timer, which will end the game.

Should I also allow for word nucleation next to the cursor?

Allow for swapping next to the cursor
(what are the controls for this?)

The cursor has a feel that it shoud be the 

Game idea: the whole board is filled with grams, every cell.
Then the player is arranging, from the start of the grid (top left, line by line, to the bottom right) click individual cells to rearrange with the individual tiles to form words, sentences.

Like there is a forced cursor, the cursor moving one by one (and the player can skip a space if they want. Otherwise the player is scaning the whole board set, each turn. Lots multigrams mixed in.


word ideation doesn't occur natually in this game. Something needs to spark it.

Maybe words clicked onto the board from your words, could be pre-divided into grams, like recommended useful subgrams (e.g. IZE). The words then appear in the word list like rendered cells. It could even be smart enough to bundle compound word cells like "OVER" "INNER" "MULTI"
Then maybe players can only drop in 1 cell pieces.
So I have BELT become BE LT, BEL T, B ELT?

I need to develope a smart gram algorithm (and probably pre-calculate the different recommended gram splits).

Add iternationalization for IZE vs. ISE, etc.)

Maybe the buried pieces don't reveal their faces until they've been surfaced? Like, otherwise looking ahead at it is only so useful.

Allow player to scrunch, combine multiple cells into one cell. consolidating the board, prepping for longer words

Users can click a word in the right plan, and it gets added to the board as its own piece, auto make it into a set of grams (into 3 grams)

Different game mode: given a bunch of tiles, just click and drag them around, play with the tiles, then after a time limit, all the formed words get cleared.
	Move around single celled pieces
	The after 2 minutes, a "clear event" occurs
	(or players could manually trigger it too)


One-shotting a word feels like natural approach (i.e. push 2 pieces together). Setting up a 3 or 4 piece word feels daunting

example: G + IN + W (can still spell WING backwards)


Add info/tutorial screen
Add controls displayed on screen
Add click controls for the grid

Accidentally going to the next piece without typing in your word. Maybe allow for word clears always. Maybe a chance to undo the placement

rule: While selecting words to be cleared, highlight them, instead of clearing then individually one by one.


A game mode where pieces just spawn at a regular time interval, and you can click and re-arrange words

Spawn obstacle pieces, and a final "victory" piece.
The victory piece is surroundsed by obstable pieces.


Idea: a "magic" component, where you can conjure up letters you want to complete words (like wilds) but you need to build up magic in the game from completing words

Some kind of bonus goals or something per level, otherwise it's too much of a blank canvas. too many choices.

All vowels are wild cards

Maybe allow player to draw or markup the game board with pieces they are aspirational for

Have every 10 turns be a word selection auto scan the whole board, then every 10 turns your packing up cluster of asteroids

Try tetris style gravity

Spelling backwards looks a little weird if there are is a cell with a digram, since the end of the digram visually "jumps" backwards looking.

Spelling stright backwards across a multigram is a little unintuitive too.

Prevent weired unigram domino combos (like double I)
	What distribution should I use for this?

Have entire placed nucleated chunks (an asteroid of multiple pieces) be moveable, re-arrangable?


In the middle of spelling a long word, you basically start forming a wish list of letters you need to finish it.
	I would be cool if there was a way to keep track of that (i.e. not forgetting was letters I was hunting for)
	Or some way of cheating/influencing the next letters to include them. (like pulling ahead from the next random set of pieces)

	Maybe allow to pickup an remove some placed player pieces.

IDEA: all letters in a cluster can be used to spell a word, they actually don't need to be adjacent at all, they just need to be part of the cluster. Packing on the size of different asteroids until can spell a word (without worrying about arranging the different angles to snake it together. Longer words are harder to snake together. Then really, we're just throwing words onto 4 different piles.


Give players the ability to re-move their word if they didn't like the placement

Should I require that pieces can only be placed next to another piece already on the board? (like cannot just place a piece in the middle of nowhere?


Words you create, you can pull back into the game board, as their own little piece (or maybe a couple of trigram pieces.)
So that players can achieve compound words. "sun" "up" "ball"

Can players pull up a dictionary? Like the history of all the words they've accomplished?

Instead of being forced to use a single spawned piece, maybe word pieces are streaming by (or from a set), and players can choose to pick one of them?
	(Aid in players to build a certain word).

	When players first play, they are just doing basic / luck word creation. But at a certain point, players will be hunting / targetting for certain words.

Also, when you save the player's history, record the pieces/grams they used to achieve it (and maybe the whole arrangement too). This would be like a nice sharing/remembering how they had found/created that peice.

Also allow for latin prefix loading / reuse (even if they aren't standalong words in themselves)
	"micro", "anthro", etc.

In a more dumbed down version of the game, word pieces are just thrown in like a set of pieces, the player doesn't arrange the order of them, otherwise the pieces are like melted or blended together.

Maybe player can select in advance a set of words from their built dictionary, that they want to blend up and include in their piece set.
	It could be pickings from a subset of randomly picked words.
	Or like being presented a menu or categories of words
		would you like the "greek" with "plants and nature", the "viking" and "french military" or "asian foreign loan words"

	Like making smoothie? Drinking a smoothy?

	Different levels are themed like different restaurants. Coffee baristas, ribs joint.

	game name: "Word Foodie"

Number of cells needed to complete the word
	Even with the most clever gram corpus; on average 4 cells will be needed to complete words. Example analysis from one of my gram sets:
		1 cell : 67
		2 cell : 1832
		3 cell : 5373
		4 cell : 6165
		5 cell : 4055
		6 cell : 1974
		7 cell : 759
		8 cell : 160
		9 cell : 18
		10 cell : 3

	7k out of 20k words are spelled in 3 cells.
	17k out of 20k words are spelling in 5 cells
		The remaining 3k word then become hard to achieve stretch goals by the passionate players.



RULE EXTRACTION

At the end, the set of words you found in a match, get formed into a poem (by AI) then generate an image (slowly revealed) as a smooth voice reads it. Funny reword for finding funny wordsl

	(watch this ad while we generate your poem)

Find a control sc

More Dr. Mario style (block appear that you have to clear)
	I could pick blocks to encourage more dictionary coverage

	I could have starting blocks that need to be use in words multiple times before they break away

	Maybe you can leave a lot of debis around, so long as you clear the initial starting blocks; 
	like that is the focus of the mission (instead of having a completely clear board)


Setup for steam distribution
  1. Create a Steamworks developer account ($100 one-time fee)
  2. Create your app in Steamworks
  3. Set up depots for Windows and macOS
  4. Use Steamworks SDK's upload tool to push builds
  5. Configure store page, release

A dictionary db to accompany the players
	track across all games
		a completed game saves which words were used
		keep track of an ongoign 'percentage' of the dictionary used
		meant to be something to brag about, comparing each other's dictionaries
		use the dictionary to give a silly/funny label to the player's word 'style'
			(e.g. obscure short words, long everyday words, science words, etc.)

	Quiz the players on word definitions
		Prevent users from guessing obscure words

		A pop quiz at the end, otherwise lose dictionary coverage

		A pop quiz at time of word completion, otherwise lose points


	Dictionary completion as side goal, or take over as the main goal?

		If coverage is the main goal, then "points" within each bottle round become more meaningless


Anything unlocked with "points"?
	Different game modes unlocked?

	Different blocks unlocked?
		longer grams?
		more obscure grams?


Different ways for the blocks to "drop"

	No collision?
		Allow the blocks to just override each other?

	Normal "bottle" drop

		Make sure it's wide enough to support long word setup

	An asteroid forming in the center
		blocks are allowed to orbit around the side
		blocks can dropin from any angle
		have to somehow have more dynamic angles than just the 4 directions to come from
		dropping acts mor elike gravity towards the center

		Octagon may be the better tile shape for this
		The straight "direction" of a finished word may be less obvious
		May need to have the player select the word, snaking paths to complete the words


	Collecting on the sides of the 4 walls
		No gravity at play
		Players can just direct then to which ever side they want
		A bit more casual play

		It gives the player the ability to sort their blocks, and prep prefixes and suffixes on opposite sides of the wall.


Blocks could "wedge" inbetween other blocks
	
	Blocks have pointy sides

	Blocks can 'crater' in, pushing out the other


Complete word selection

	Do not automatically remove words
		(then you get a cascade of obscure word clears)
		(then long words can never build)

	User to select words explicitly
		Pause between block drops

Rotate the blocks

	Allow rotate both ways?

	Around which block should the blocks rotate
		(i.e. big swing rotate, or small swing rotate)

	Avoid making it look like it's rotating around an empty place

		MAoe it look like rotate arpmd a point

	Measure the rotation footprint of each block s


Simulate word connections like molecule chunks and magnets, and valence electron shells



1 letter grams: 26 entries; ~166k total weight
2 letter grams: ~300 entries; ~141k total weight
3 letter grams: ~700 entries; ~81k total weight
4 letter grams: ~150 entries; ~15k total weight



[TODO] refactor hex _create_outlines to prevent double line draws


[TODO] PyInstaller build tested
[TODO] Setup with Steamworks
[TODO] Steam upload tested
[TODO] Add logging
[TODO] Setup apitrace; debug sessions for gl_* call counts
[TODO] Implement versioning x.y.z
[TODO] Customizable controls menu; assign keys
[TODO] Sprite counts in debug menu


Add highlighting UI section which words were captured

Add a confirmation 


"Max" wasn't in the dictionary? huh
(how should I add it?)


[TODO]
Make the existing min_length_rules, at least 2 letter and at least 2 grams/cells


New rule to Allow/Disallow partial split of words

