
In practice, with the chunking/scripting we landed on, it used up 15% of my claude subscriptions' 5-hour-limit total. Nice! And it ran in about 10 minutes.


Token cost
(harness overhead)
W = per word
I = pushinputchunk = 5 x W
0 = process+response = 3 x I = 15 x W

So overall processing token cost is 20 x W

Overall emperically measured process time
(walltime is linear / consistent regardless of batch size)
1 min per 150 words
7.5 min per 1000 words
About 2 hours to process 22k words
Could parallelize 10 subagents at a time; do it in 15 mins 

Sonnet chokes on word batch sizes of 2000k
	Probably because this start to push the output context size limits (in addition to otherwise normal overloading the LLM with too much data)
		"the thinking cliff"

Try my batches again on Haiku (even cheaper)
	Q: Does Haiku have any "reasoning"/"thinking"? Can it be disabled?
	Q: Are there any other models that have a disableable reasoning? 

Q: Does a subagnet system context just a copy of the main session's context? Is a subagent's context independently settable/configurable from the main session? Can a subagent's context be initialized from just a free-text instructions to the main session, or do I need to create a separate outputstyle type JSON for this?
	Not just a copy

Q: Why would using the lean API be so much faster? Is this just otherwise less time spent for the LLM parsing and ingesting the subagent intro?

	Lean API already has minimal context set, and thinking disabled.

	Q: If millions of people are using claude code, and subagents, and if I guess that many claude code users are all using the same default system context prefix; is there parts of the subagents that are effectively already pre-cached for me? (as cached by other users?)

		No. Prompt caching is scoped per-organization,

The cost of the output is "large" because it's essentially one giant csv file that the upstream LLM appends into the messages[]?

	(otherwise, once appended, the output tokens are essentially part of the cache; just being a little pedantic about your "output never cached" statement; otherwise I understand)

	Could we reduce this cost, but just returning a simple list of words that were included in the classification? (Since, I suspect, with most of these classification schemes, only like 1-10% of the words will end up being classified)?

Batching is required
	AI wants to chunk it into 40 chunks (500 words each)
	
	Q: Why 500? Is this just like a nice cautious round number to divide by, or is there a good technical reason for it?
	Q: Do smaller chunks help keep the upstream/LLM cache alive? (i.e. to help ensure each chunk processes within 5 mins) (I'm to sure how the 5 min TTL/window works admittedly)
	"one shot, if it fits"
	Q: Are there any hard technical limitations to this? Or just practical context polluting type of limitations?

		Yes, both
		Sonnet/Haiku cap at ~64k output tokens per response

		And concerns about context drift

		Q: Do other models (other than sonnet) have larger token response limits?

			Yes, but not by much.
			Opus has ~128k output tokens per response.

	Q: How much more do "opus tokens cost more"?

2 ways to send the dictionary:
	tool_use: Read (pulled by the LLM)
	embed it into the messages (pushed to the LLM)

	claude code and/or claude does not automatically invoke tool_calls through any sort of side channel/chat; it all gets appended into 1 large chat sessions.

	Write add to the messages[] transcript:
		the input to the tool_use for write (i.e. the csv file) is also appended to the transcript.
		The results of the tool_use "wrote 500 lines" is also added to the transcript

	Both Read tool call or upfront harness push appended the dictionary to the transcript.

	So, to be clever, and effectively drop a read chunk content or write argument chunk content from the main session context:
		A) Use subagents (get the isolation for free)
		B) Individual API calls
		C) Some kind of clever trimming / cherry-picking / compacting of the transcript

Python scripts cannot tap into the subscription API path.
	Q: Specifically, why not? Maybe dive a little bit more into what parts of the OAuth login force usage of the claude code first party tool.

		It actually seems like we could hack this in python, with a bit of oauth scraping... might be fragile, but could be a way to tap into a scriptable format.

Claude code can use both the public API path (pay-per-token) and the private API path (subscription)
	Q: Does an interactive claude code session have the ability to jump back and forth between the API paths, or does it have to be pre-configed before starting the session which type of API path it will be?
	Q: Do I (human) decide how/when the mode switches, or otherwise if both API modes are enabled, can claude code choose itself between them. That is, does claude code have built-in cost/token awareness, or as the human will I forever have to be aware and watching the costs.

		Yes, human be babysitting all this.

	Either way, both API paths use the same backend LLM.


Using subagents vs. 1 main session is only equivalent in tokencost, if we can thin the subagent's context overhead to 1k (otherwise it defaults to a 20k context overhead)

	Techniques to shrink the agent context size:

		define a custom agent type with (a) your own minimal system prompt and (b) a restricted toolset (say, only Write)

		"tool JSON schemas are bulky"

	Otherwise, a subagent will always have more overhead than a naked SDK API call

We can prevent the growth of the main chat session messages[] by using subagents.

	Otherwise there is no magic to get around the raw token cost of processing the whole file.

	subagents just report back to the main agent "wrote 500 rows,"

Subagents can share cache, so long as their context prefix is the same, and it's all within the same 5min TTL window.
	However, they very often will not actually utilize shared caching, because of timing.
	A cache entry only becomes readable after the first response starts streaming. Fire 10 subagents simultaneously and all 10 miss the shared-prefix cache (they're all writing it at once).


How to choose the cheaper models?
	/model  Sonnet

	For the main thread, the model can only be explicitly selected. The harness cannot read a line from a skill or prompt to change its own model...


Defining custom subagent context
	
	subagents do not inherit the main session's outputstyle / context

	thus, the cli flags --bare etc. do not effect the subagents

	different "subagent types" are defined

	.claude/agents/<name>.md

		(AI can write these agent files)

		minimal system prompt + restricted toolset

	Q: I don't see a ~/.claude/agents/ dir on my fs. Does this mean I have no custom defined subagent types? Whereelse are other built-in agent types defined? What are they?

		The built-in agents aren't exposed via a file on disk.

		What are the existing built-in agents?
			"explore"
				read-only tools
			"plan"
				read-only research
			"general-purpose
				full tools
			"statusline-setup"
				Q: What is this?

	Q: How/when is an subagent specified by the main session?

		The main session can choose to specify different subagent types at subagent startup time

	specifying subagent "type" and subagent "model" are two different things.


Q: Do multiple (parallelized) tool calls (from multiple subagents) back to the harness create a realistic choke point? Does my local running instance of claude code fork many processes and parallelize well? On my specific laptop (Apple M3 13-inch, M3, 2024; HYV1YNF0XG; "memory 16 GB") at how many concurrent subagents should I start to be worried about contention / plateaued benefits?

	We are not hardware limited for concurrency, but instead application software limited.

	10 at a time is a limit in claude code

	Scripted use of public API would effectively have no limits on concurrency. Much higher concurrency if I wanted.

Q: Do the public pay-per-token SDK based API calls, are they effectively without the "reason" feature?

Q: Why or whynot would a script with multiple parallel "lean" API calls run into similar contention?

Q: Why would a subscription based API calls have more agentic round-trips than the lean API?


"Thinking" (aka "adaptive thinking") enabled or disabled

	Q: What is thinking?
	Q: Is thinking a claude (upstream LLM) or claude code (harness) feature?

		Thinking is an extra 4-6 conversation steps, done completely on a side scratch pad, that the LLM does to double check / perform a meta-pass reasoning / refinement on the output, before officially putting the output on the messages[] API response back to the harness.

		Every extra thinking token generated on the scratch pad is tallied and billed to you!

		The content of the thinking token / scratch pad is hidden by default.

			I could get some limited visibility on the scratch pad with "display: summarized"

	The main session may be able to set the subagents's model but it does not explicit set the subagent's thinking mode

		"thinking is NOT configurable per-subagent — subagents inherit the session's thinking setting"

		I would have to launch a main session without any thinking settings enabled?

		Q: How do I set a main session's thinking mode to disabled (when it is dependent on the model I choose?)
			"launch the new session with thinking turned OFF "

"Effort" vs. "thinking"
	effort: low  is a differen knob than thinking disabled.

Q: What is the claude CLI flag is disable thinking?

	No CLI flag
	settings.json : alwaysThinkingEnabled: false
	env var: MAX_THINKING_TOKENS=0
		both settable in a project level settings file
		.../.claude/settings.json

	{
	  "alwaysThinkingEnabled": false,
	  "effortLevel": "low",
	  "env": { "MAX_THINKING_TOKENS": "0" }
	}

	So I would just make sure the launch the claude session from a certain dir.

		(maybe a subdir within the code dir).
		wordtetris/processfulldictionarysessions/settings.json

	//not settable in outputstyles

Q: What is the claude CLI flag to set effort low?

	effort: low can be specified in the subagent's config file frontmatter.

	There is also a --effort low CLI file; but may be effectively redundant

